&lsquo;Miral&rsquo;: Director has conflict of interest
“Miral” Rated PG- 13. At Kendall Square Cinema: C+ Painter-turned-director Julian Schnabel (Oscar-nominated for his exquisite “The Diving Bell and the Butterfly”) has built a terrific second career from filmed biographies (also in-cluding “Before Night Falls” and “Basquiat”) that deal with people confined by circumstance yearning to break free. I’d love to report that his fourth film, “Miral,” continues the upward trend, but the screenplay by Schnabel’s girlfriend, Palestinian journalist Rula Jebreal (based on her semiautobiographical novel), contains too many earnest platitudes in its one-sided look at four women’s intertwining lives during the first intifada of the 1980s. (Some musical choices, such as Tom Waits’ “All the World Is Green” playing over a climactic funeral, also stand out in a bad way.) Miral (Freida Pinto, “Slumdog Millionaire”), the young Arab woman growing up in Jerusalem during this period, doesn’t enter the picture immediately, and when she does, she doesn’t have much to say — at first. (A bit of a good thing, because Pinto’s Indian-accented English doesn’t quite jibe with the Arabic-tinged tongues of her co-stars.) Beginning in war-torn Jerusalem circa 1948, when “Mama” Hind Husseini (Hiam Abbass, “The Visitor”) established an orphanage for refugees that quickly becomes home to 2,000, the movie spans the next 50 years, and though Schnabel’s artist’s eye is on display, the Israel /Palestine conflict is a subject that he never brings into clear focus — at least with regard to Israelis. And when he presents what some would believe terrorist actions of his protagonists, he sidesteps the potentially horrible consequences: a disgraced former nurse — a lifesaver — plants a bomb in a crowded movie theater (playing, without a hint of subtlety, Roman Polanski’s “Repulsion”) but the device fails to explode; a car bomb is set off by Miral’s political activist boyfriend — though there are seemingly no casualties. So much for the horrors of war. (“Miral” contains anger-inducing violent themes, particularly for those sympathetic to Israel.) 