LVMH Moves Forward With Gehry Art Museum
see photos Forbes Images Click for full photo gallery: Louis Vuitton Foundation for Creation After local authorities halted construction of Bernard Arnault’s new art museum in Paris, the French Senate yesterday approved a bill that will allow it to continue. That’s good news for LVMH, which commissioned Frank Gehry to design the building–formally known as the Louis Vuitton Foundation for Creation–in 2006, at a cost of $200 million. The museum will hold Arnault’s vast corporate and private collections of art, including 20th-century classics from Picasso, Yves Klein, Henry Moore and Andy Warhol mixed with modern work by Agnes Martin, Frank Serra, Jeff Koons and Pierre Huyghe. Earlier this year, the administrative tribunal of Paris, a part of the national judiciary system, had revoked the center's building permit citing its apparent encroachment on the Jardin d’Acclimatation, a childrens park next to the building site. Opponents to the site had also complained that a new building would disrupt the verdant peace of the historic park. Christophe Girard, the deputy mayor in charge of culture of the city of Paris and the director of marketing strategy for the fashion sector of LVMH, filed and won an appeal. Gehry, for his part, told reporters he was “distressed, shocked and furious” at the threat to his “magical” creation. His spokesman criticized the “selfishness, lack of civic pride and ignorance” of the groups opposing the building and predicted that in a few years it will be considered “a national monument.” Located in the center of the Bois de Boulogne, the giant glass-encased structure will look like an iceberg dressed in a cloud,” according to Arnault’s cultural adviser, Jean-Paul Claverie. Gehry has said the translucent panels are positioned to reflect different colors and light patterns throughout the day. Mostly though the complex (it includes a restaurant and auditorium) will demonstrate Arnault’s role as the penultimate tastemaker and LVMH as an institution devoted to fostering high culture in France and abroad. The Louis Vuitton Foundation for Creation is set to open in late 2012. Follow me on Twitter: @HannahElliott 