Kate Moss back in the hologram dress as she pays tribute to Alexander McQueen in magazine shoot
She was left devastated by her friend Alexander McQueen's suicide a year ago. But Kate Moss has decided to pay tribute to the late designer the best way she knows how - by wearing one of his most iconic creations. The 37-year-old poses in McQueen's ethereal ""hologram"" organza dress, which she famously wore for his Autumn/Winter 2006 fashion show five years ago, for a new magazine shoot. Enlarge A hologram of Moss flailing around like a ghostly apparition appeared on stage at the climax of the March 2006 show at Paris Fashion Week. McQueen projected the image on the stage in tribute to Moss, who was then lying low after being caught in a cocaine scandal six months earlier. And the supermodel was given the chance to return the favour in the new issue of Harper's Bazaar magazine. On the cover of the glossy, Moss also wears a white McQueen creation by the label's head designer Sarah Burton, who took over from Lee McQueen after his death. Of the late designer, who committed suicide in February last year, Kate says: ""There’s never ever going to be anybody like him. She recalls first meeting McQueen. ‘It was all a bit of a blur - I was doing a lot of shows at the time. ""I can’t even remember the first show I did for him, but I remember the first show he did in New York. It was raining, everyone was outside, and I said, “Lee, you’ve got to get Anna Wintour in!” He didn’t care. It was all chaos.’ ""His was the most exciting show to see ever, even if you weren’t there. I would hear about it on the phone and hear Lee and hear everyone. ""There was so much tension, but we had the best laughs. He was a dear friend of mine. I miss him terribly."" Kate discusses clothes the late designer gave her during their friendship in the interview. ‘There are a few he gave me before he died,"" she says. ""I went to give him his Christmas present and he gave me a lot of stuff. He was saying, “You’ve got to have this.” ""He gave me a black dress and a fur that I wore to his funeral. Before the funeral, I was going through my wardrobe thinking, “What am I going to wear?” It’s weird, now that I think about it - almost like he kind of knew.’ The man dubbed the wild child of British fashion, ""gave women power"", the supermodel insists, ""while letting them be fragile and vulnerable at the same time. ""People always used to say he was a misogynist, but it took me a while to realise that he was actually empowering women and not the other way around."" There is almost as much speculation surrounding who will create Kate's wedding gown as there is for the ""Other Kate"". She is rumoured to have ditched plans for her friend John Galliano to design the bridal dress after he was fired from Christian Dior in disgrace over his alleged anti-Semitic outburst in Paris last month. Kate Halfpenny, who dressed Kate in a vintage gown for her 35th birthday party, is another name being circulated. Miss Moss is currently in Hong Kong, to open a flagship Longchamp store. She designs a collection of handbags for the luxury brand and cut the ribbon and the grand opening yesterday. Kate will walk down the aisle on July 2 to tie the knot with her rocker beau, Jamie Hince. The full feature appears in the May issue of Harper’s Bazaar, on sale today. Do you have a story about a celebrity? Call the Daily Mail showbusiness desk on 0207 938 6364 or 0207 938 6683. For U.S. stories, phone 310 642 2317. 