Jean Paul Gaultier's talking head
For a unique take on the world of fashion, sign up to the Guardian's fashion email FASHION DILEMMA What to make of Gaultier's talking head? We're constantly on the lookout for weird and wonderful stories in the the weird and wonderful world of fashion, so our patent-pending Weirdar gave a resounding ""beep!"" when we heard the news that Jean Paul Gaultier is to be the subject of an exhibition in Canada. What's so weird about that, you ask? Well, he's also going to be part of an experiment to turn him into a talking head. Pencils out ... aaaand tick the ""weird"" box! Before you get too excited, FS must break the news that this is, alas, not some sort of twisted real-life version of that comedy classic The Man with Two Brains, or indeed, as a quick Twitter inquiry for ""films with talking heads"" reminded us, a re-make of the scene in Return to Oz where Dorothy steals the powder of life from Princess Mombi (watch it - it's scary). We must turn to the new exhibition, ""The Fashion World of Jean Paul Gaultier: From the Sidewalk to the Catwalk"", to find out what's really going on. ""We moulded the head of Jean Paul in plaster and we will have [film] projections right onto the face,"" explains Thierry-Maxime Loriot, the curator of the exhibition. Oh. FS is disappointed. However, we reckon the exhibition will be fun even without decapitation. There will be 120 iconic outfits on display and a variety of talking plaster heads modelled on Gaultier's celebrity clients (what will the Kate Moss one say?). They'll also show some of Gaultier's early fashion sketches, Polaroids by Andy Warhol, and incontrovertible proof that JPG was a child prodigy. This comes in the form of an augmented teddy bear upon which the young designer affixed a crafted paper pointy bosom. We can't wait. The exhibition opens at the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Montréal in Canada on June 17. BANG ON TREND Whistles' ""Carrie"" skirt, New Look's purple pumps, and Dorothy Perkins' orange dress/ Colour blocking Tangerine, lime and lemon. No, FS is not suffering from scurvy, we're talking about fashionable colours. Bright, bold colour blocking is one of the trends we have deemed to be ""actual fun"" and there's no need to stick to citrus. Mix and (mis)match scarlet, violet, and sky-blue, too. One of the nice things about colour blocking is that it's quite easy to do and you can take it as far as you want. If you're just after a shot of colour to add va-va-voom to a plain outfit then there are plenty of great accessories at the moment. Take, for instance, Asos's hot pink clutch (currently £16) which would look great matched with an orange dress like this one from Dorothy Perkins (£35). French Connection's cross-body bag is satchel-like, gorgeous and a sunny shade of tangerine (£165), and on the other end of the price scale we've found a blue skinny belt for a mere £4 from fashionunion.co.uk. If you're after shoes then purple brogues will help to brighten your day - these Asos suede ones are fabulous (£35). Need shoes for a jazzier occasion? Then try New Look's purple court shoe with a platform sole (£19.99). Alternatively, River Island are stocking a nice line in red and yellow patent slingbacks with a kitten heel (£39.99). Skirt-wearers should watch out for spring's new maxi lengths - they're perfect for colour blocking. Reiss's ""Danielle"" version costs £100 (ouch) and is suitably voluminous whether you buy it in green or vermillion. Then there's the infamous (and rapidly becoming ubiquitous) coral ""Carrie"" pleated skirt from Whistles. At £95 it's what Grazia would call an investment piece (or FS would call expensive) and you might want to try out wearing the new lengths (knee-length and midi) before you decide it's for you. Zara have some great trousers available in a rainbow of colours from apple green to acid yellow. They're all around the £40 mark and we'll just provide you with a link to the skinny pair as we particularly like the way they're styled in the model's picture. FASHIONISTA OF THE WEEK A vision in tangerine. Photograph: Mike Coppola/Getty Images Some of you may recognise English actress Rebecca Hall from her role in Ben Affleck's film, The Town. And here she is attending the Metropolitan Opera for the premiere of Le Comte Ory. Well, she is the daughter of theatre director Peter Hall and opera singer Maria Ewing so clearly a love of opera runs in the blood. Anyway, more to the point (culture? what culture? It's all about the FROCKS people) she looks very good in her bold red dress, with it's high-necked, long-sleeved demure cut. To see the full length version visit vogue.co.uk. QUOTE OF THE WEEK A man should never wear shorts in the city. Flip-flops and shorts in the city are never appropriate. Shorts should only be worn on the tennis court or on the beach. A style dictat from Tom Ford. Take note, chaps, or you'll probably be sent to some kind of fashion version of Siberia. FASHION GRAVEYARD Aubrey Oh Dear. Photograph: Tammie Arroyo/Gregg Deguire/UK Press/ Empics This is Aubrey O'Day (no, us neither). On the plus side, she's wearing more clothes than a brief Google image search would suggest is normal for her. However, dressing as a Smurf is not a good look. Even a Smurf in visible Spanx. A Smurf in visible Spanx wearing an inexplicably body-shortening dress. OUT AND ABOUT FS favourite ethical shoe company TOMS are encouraging people to spend a day without shoes - to raise awareness of children throughout the world who have no choice in the matter. Last year, their One Day Without Shoes event saw over 250,000 people go barefoot for the day - this year they are hoping for a million so kick off those uncomfy heels and join in on 5 April. Visit onedaywithoutshoes.com to find out more, and join events in your area. Vintage fashion fans will be pleased to hear of yet more fairs all over the country. This week we're headed to Essex where on Sunday April 10 you can pay £4.50 (a pound less for concessions) and have a pleasant day spent wandering the stalls and hunting out treasures. Visit essexvintagefashionfair.com for more details. Hot footballers. On a catwalk. Wearing clothes. What's not to like about the runway show put on by Wolverhampton Wanderers in collaboration with Harvey Nichols? Yes, the footballers will be strutting their stuff alongside professional models at the Molineux stadium in the Hayward Suite on Tuesday 5 April from 7pm. Tickets cost from £25 and proceeds go to the Alzheimers Society. SHOPPING NEWS Bob Carlos Clarke collaboration for COLLECTIVE. News of a collaboration FS is eagerly awaiting: organic clothing company COLLECTIVE have hooked up with the estate of legendary photographer Bob Carlos Clarke and the Little Black Gallery to produce a range of limited edition organic T-shirts. All the T-shirts are produced sustainable and will aim to drive fair trade in Africa. The range will be both for men and women and retail at boutiques including Autograph and Harvey Nichols. Watch this space for more news. FS is very excited about the Oxfam Curiosity Shop. For ten days only, the pop up shop-within-a-shop (now that's a tongue twister) in Selfridges will sell celebrity fashion donations, sought-after samples and vintage clothing. There will also be celebrity stylish sessions and VIP appearances (FS is available on request, Oxfam!) Ultralounge, Selfridges basement, Oxford Street, from Friday 1 April to Sunday 10 April oxfam.org.uk OFFCUTS Imogen Fox implores you not to be afraid of the new maxi skirt trend - and click here to find out where to get the best ones Gorgeous florals for spring from the Observer's fashion team Marvel at great works of art in knitted form. The Hokusai! The Vermeer! Amazing. For all the latest fashion news, visit guardian.co.uk/fashion News to tell us? Email kate.carter@guardian.co.uk Follow us on Twitter 