Charla Nash, woman mauled by chimp, waiting for face transplant (video)
Charla Nash, woman mauled by chimp, waiting for face transplant (video) New Haven, Conn. - Charla Nash, the woman who was left disfigured after being attacked by a 200-pound chimpanzee in Feb. 2009, is anxiously awaiting a face and hand transplant. The brutal attack left Nash without her nose, lips, hands, and sight. She was blinded during the vicious rampage, is only able to eat through a straw and has difficulty breathing. To see a photo of Charla before the attack and a graphic current photo, click here . In a 2009 inteview with Oprah, Nash said she wears a veil everyday so she won't ""scare people."" Only weeks ago, Texas construction worker, Daniel Wiens, 25, was the first man in the U.S. to receive a full face transplant at Boston's Brigham and Women's Hospital after a traumatic power line accident in 2008, left him blinded without lips, eyebrows, and his nose. To see photos regarding Daniel Wiens, click here. Nash, 57, was deemed eligible for surgery by the same hospital that performed Wiens' surgery. As with Wiens' procedure, the Department of Defense would pay for Nash's surgery through a contract given to the Boston hospital in 2009 to cover the cost of face transplants for some civilians, veterans, and hospital officials. If donors are found for both Nash's hands and face, the hospital may be the first in the country to perform a simultaneous transplant of both. Advertisement Hospital officials note that eligible donors can be up to 20 years younger or 10 years older than Nash and must have similar skin color and texture, along with her blood type. The donor must also be within four hours of travel from the Boston location. The surgery will make it easier for Nash to eat, as well as restore her sense of touch and smell, said plastic surgeon Dr. Bohdan Pomahac, who performed Wiens' face transplant and will lead the Nash surgical team. To see a video regarding Nash, click on the player to the left of this article, or click here. Despite her devastating injuries, Dr. Pomahac said she is ""amazingly well"" psychologically considering the serious attack she underwent. He noted that the prospect of a face and hand transplant gives her hope for the future. Want to read more US Headlines Examiner articles? Then subscribe to receive continuous updates as articles are published. You can also follow me on Twitter . 