Tili&#039;s back at SeaWorld and so are the crowds: Tips on seeing the orca show
The return of orca Tilikum to SeaWorld's Believe show on March 30th after an absence of more than a year brought out the crowds to welcome the big guy back. Tili is a crowd pleaser because his sheer size allows him to soak the crowds very effectively as he swims by to chants of ""Shamu! Shamu!"" The park is debuting a new orca show, One Ocean, in late April, which will no doubt draw even more people. So how do you see the orca show at SeaWorld most effectively? Here are some tips: 1) Arrive at Shamu Stadium early. The stadium opens about half an hour before show time, although people line up before that on the busiest days. There are refreshment stands and restrooms at the stadium, so you can get munchies, souvenirs and drinks or make a quick pitstop once you get there. The stadium is massive, so it only reaches capacity on the busiest days, but you won't have a good seat choice if you get there late. 2) Choose your entrance carefully. There are multiple entrances to Shamu Stadium, so don't just jump into the first line you see on a crowded day. Walk around the stadium and see if you can find something shorter. 3) Be prepared if you sit in the soak section. You really do get wet in the danger zone, especially now that Tili is back. Splashing is a big crowd pleasure, so it's likely to be part of the new show, too. Wear a poncho if you don't want to get your clothes wet, and stash fragile items like cameras and cell phone in plastic bags to protect them. Ride Atlantis, the park's water ride, after sitting in the soak zone since you are already wet, or ride it before the show. Advertisement 4) Don't rush out at the end. People tend to jump up and hurry to the exits once the show is over. Rather than fighting the crowd, I like to relax for a bit. Sometimes the trainers are around at the end, so you can have a nice chat with them until the massive pack of people is gone. Click here to see a video of Tili's first return performance. Click here to read more of my articles, and click here to follow me on Twitter. 