Ristretto | Modernist Coffee
Nathan Myhrvold keeps busy. The former chief technology officer of Microsoft is an executive at DreamWorks Animation, once studied with Stephen Hawking and donated Tyrannosaurus rex fossils he uncovered in Montana to the Smithsonian. He was profiled by Malcolm Gladwell, is a pal of Bill Gates and spent the last several years working on ""Modernist Cuisine,"" an encyclopedic six-volume compendium of cutting-edge cooking that is not only one of the most expensive cookbooks ever published (the list price is $625, though it's available on Amazon.com for a mere $461.62) but also one of the heaviest, a fire-door-stopper that tips the scales at more than 40 pounds. An initial print run of 6,000 editions has already sold out. Even more exciting for baristas and home brewers, there's an entire chapter on coffee, 50 thick pages devoted to the topic. In culinary circles coffee is often a second-class subject, not worth the ink. In ""Modernist Cuisine"" it's treated seriously, and takes its place right next to a section on wine. The chapter is essentially a detailed primer. It outlines how coffee is processed, stored and roasted, and discusses the best grinders (conical burr) and the best temperature for drinking (not scalding hot). ""Modernist Cuisine"" has a boys-with-toys current running through it, so most of the chapter is devoted to espresso and assumes that you have access to a professional or prosumer machine and dream of pulling the perfect shot. I could almost see Mark Prince nodding in approval from across the continent. There's no knocking the meticulous research that went into the chapter (there's a lucid explanation of how coffee is extracted), the conclusions (darker roasts don't mean stronger coffee) or the overall sensibility (Myhrvold is right, restaurant coffee should be better), but there isn't anything new here for the coffee nut. If you read Tim Wendelboe or Scott Rao, check in with Matt Buchanan at Gizmodo or James Hoffmann at jimseven, or even let yourself meander into a conversation with a chatty barista - you'll already be familiar with much of what's in the chapter, if not all of it. It's a shame, because ""Modernist Cuisine"" is quickly becoming known for educating the educated, either by systematizing techniques (in his review for The New York Times, Michael Rhulman writes: ""The table for custard lets you pick your desired consistency based on what percentage of egg you use and the temperature you cook it to, to create a thick Anglaise-style sauce or a stand-alone custard. I tested it, it's brilliant, I'll use it forever."") or by explaining the arcane (John Lancaster of The New Yorker seemed fascinated to learn that because water boils at a higher temperature in New York City than in Mexico City, ovens effectively bake at higher temperatures in New York City than in Mexico City). Too bad Myhrvold doesn't do either with coffee. The espresso how-to won't hold any surprises for somebody who watches a professional at work, never mind the curious customer who takes an hour-long class at the local coffee shop. The book doesn't even have a single photo of coffee gear sliced open with an abrasive water-jet cutter. (The cross-section of a flaming grill in action has become an iconic image from the book.) There's a Synesso espresso machine with the front plate removed, but that's too easy. Maybe that's the point. If the chapter won't blow any minds within coffee, it might indoctrinate a generation of chefs and home cooks who never spent much time thinking about grinders or roast profiles. This probably won't sit well with Myhrvold, who can't handle qualified praise. So instead of fixating on shortcomings, I'll spend a moment with something he does well: express his fanatical love of espresso. In a short passage he recalls confronting his skepticism of the so-called ""God shot,"" an espresso so transcendent that it changes your life. Myhrvold writes: Then one day at the Coffee Fest trade show in Seattle, a barista named Daniel Humphries of Victrola Coffee pulled me a shot of their Streamline roast in one of the earliest Synesso machines. ""It was like nothing else I have ever tasted, a phenomenal and complex layering of flavors. Yes, it was coffee, but with a richness and complexity unlike those of any coffee I'd had before - unlike anything else I'd ever tasted, for that matter. … I walked around the rest of the day haunted by that taste; it was with me for hours. ""I'd had my first God shot. ""Of course now I feel foolish for doubting that God shots exist. Yes, the language used by coffee lovers to describe them is over the top, but that's because the experience itself is, too."" Preach it, brother. 