AL champ Texas rallies for 9-5 win over Boston
ARLINGTON, Texas—David Murphy ran to first base looking out toward the left-field corner and expecting the ball to drop in foul territory. Except his slicing liner kicked up chalk for the Texas Rangers. Like so many times while winning their first American League championship a year ago, the Rangers pulled off an exhilarating comeback. ""There isn't anything changed with those guys,"" manager Ron Washington said after a 9-5 win Friday over the Boston Red Sox in the season opener. Pinch-hitter Murphy's tiebreaking, two-run double off hard-throwing Daniel Bard was part of a four-run outburst in the eighth for Texas, which before the game raised the AL championship flag. ""My body language brought it back in. I was praying the ball would hit the chalk, and it did,"" Washington said. ""When it hit the chalk, I lost it."" Rangers newcomers Mike Napoli and Yorvit Torrealba ran home to break a 5-all tie. Murphy scored on a double by Elvis Andrus before another double by AL MVP Josh Hamilton. Napoli, Ian Kinsler and Nelson Cruz all homered for the Rangers, whose opener came exactly five months after a Game 5 loss to San Francisco at home ended its first World Series. The reloaded Red Sox, who added All-Stars Adrian Gonzalez and Carl Crawford after missing the playoffs last season, blew leads of 2-0 and 4-2. ""Every loss is frustrating. We've got 161 to go,"" Kevin Youkilis said. ""We know we're better than we played today. There's going to be a lot of games like that this year, but hopefully not too many in a row."" Murphy pinch-hit for No. 9 batter Julio Borbon, the center fielder whose two-base error on the first play of the game led to the Red Sox scoring a pair of unearned runs. Borbon remained a starter even after five errors in 21 spring training games, a move that allows the Rangers to play Hamilton in left but relegates Murphy to the bench. ""I do it for my teammates. I love my teammates,"" said Murphy, who started 105 games last season. ""Would I like to be included more? Yes. But if I continue to hit, I don't think I should have a problem."" Bard said he made the exact pitch he wanted to Murphy. ""Sinker down and away. It was on the knees, outer black,"" Bard said. ""He just barely got the bat to it. Three inches to the left and that's a foul ball, and we're having a different conversation."" Darren Oliver, the third Texas reliever, got the victory even after allowing a homer to David Ortiz in the top of the eighth that tied it at 5. Gonzalez had two hits and drove in three runs in his Boston debut. Crawford went 0 for 4 with three strikeouts while leaving a runner in scoring position each at-bat. 