April Fools in Tech Land: Comic Sans and Google Motion - Digits
Ah, April Fools Day — when Google introduces a search tool that reads your mind and video links across the Web force people to watch Rick Astley singing. This year's crop of tech April Fools jokes is corny as usual, but the tech April Fools master — Google — stands above the rest. The Wall Street Journal’s homepage rendered in Comic Sans using the Google Chrome tool. Eek. The search giant Friday morning launched an all-out campaign to promote the font Comic Sans on the Web. For those who don't know, Comic Sans is the typeface that looks kind of like neat printed handwriting — and it's widely ridiculed by graphic designers and Internet denizens. It was the subject of a Wall Street Journal article in 2009 (Headline: A Font of Ill Will), and it makes Web pages basically unreadable. But the Google webmaster team said Friday that it would be rolling out Comic Sans as the default Google font across all Google products on April 4. They said experiments had shown that users ""thoroughly read every piece of content displayed in Comic Sans"" and that it is ""the most effective way to achieve user happiness."" They also introduced an extension for the Chrome Web browser that turns all text on all Web pages into Comic Sans. (Try it. It's horrifying.) And they provided a special little treat for those of us who search for ""Helvetica"" (another font) on Google. Not to be outdone, the Gmail team said it was introducing something called Gmail Motion — gesture commands for email users. They even produced a snappy video and a printable guide to sample gestures. (To reply, you point backward with your thumb. To reply all, use both hands.) And the company posted a job listing Friday for an ""autocompleter,"" someone to guess what users are searching for and type in the rest of the word before they can, so it will be added to the list of suggestions given by Google. Other excellent pranks today include an email sent out by the Huffington Post claiming that the website was going to erect a paywall for New York Times employees only and a subtle joke that replaced the normal “people you may know” suggestions on LinkedIn with names like “Albert Einstein.” If you're hankering for more April Fools jokes, TechCrunch is keeping a comprehensive list. Alas, the Journal doesn't let Digits run posts about fake news — something about being a ""serious"" news organization — so here are the April Fools headlines you'll never get to see. 10. This Just In: Birds Check Into Rehab for Anger Management 9. Apple Makes Friends with Adobe 8. Mark Zuckerberg Shows Up to New Facebook Offices in Suit 7. Exclusive: Twitter Removes Character Limit 6. Sprint, Verizon Chiefs Give Three Cheers for AT&T, T-Mobile Deal 5. Glut of iPads in Stores Leads to Drastically Reduced Prices 4. Movie Studio Execs: ‘It's Time to Give It a Rest With 3-D’ 3. New App, ‘TBD,’ Raises $56 Billion Before It's Even Conceived 2. President Obama Ditches BlackBerry for Windows Phone 7 And the number one April Fool's Day Digits News Headline ... 1. Apple: Our Products Aren't ""Magical"" After All Readers, give us your best tech April Fools Day headline in the comments. – Jennifer Valentino-DeVries and Lauren Goode 